# ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io
Website for IHMC Robotics Open Source Software Documentation

FRAMEWORK AND HOW TO NAVIGATE:
- The website and all individual webpages generated by project repos are hosted via GitHub pages.
- The main documentation website is created in the ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io repo. This has the homepage, footer and header links and navbar, as well as a documentation homepage that links to the relevant documentation for individual projects.
- How docusaurus works: It generates two folders: docs and website, into a directory of your choice. For project repos, this directory is websitedocs. For the main website, it's simply the root directory of the source branch. These generated docs and website folders will have all the files you create and edit complete with the tools to render your documentation with docusaurus themes. Docusaurus takes these files and PUBLISHES your website (mostly raw html and relevant files) into another branch in your repo. Currently, it is set up to publish to the gh-pages branch of your github project repository. For the main website, the docs and website folders are in the source brnach and the site is published to the master branch of ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io.
- Each project will have a websitedocs folder in their repo. This websitedocs directory will have a docs directory, website directory and a script to normalize the stylings for the javadocs generated (more on that below). This websitedocs directory will have the necessary docusaurus infrastructure set up for you to write and publish documentation that will be integrated with the main website ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io. It is important that you do not delete or rename the docs and website directories as they are required for docusaurus to generate the site.
- The docs directory contains all the md fies with info you want documented (tutorials, introductions, etc.).
- The website directory files that you need to modify according to your project are:
  - static folder: This contains an index.html file in which you need to update the href to docs/nameofyourprojectdocshomepage eg. docs/euclidhome where euclidhome.md is the md file behind the homepage of the euclid documentation. The static directory also contains a javadocs folder in which you'll generated your javadocs into.
  - replacestyles.sh: This script file is necessary because the docusaurus infrastructure is not set up to use different/custom css easily in different parts of the website. When the javadocs are generated in the static/javadocs directory, all the html files will include a path to css files in the javadocs directory. When these files are published to the gh-pages branch, docusaurus removes the css files from the static/javadocs directory (despite much effort navigating docusaurus docs, still haven't figured out a way for it to stop doing this). Since the css files are removed in the gh-pages branch, the html files rendered as webpages have no styling. My solution for this is a script that replaces all the css paths in the html files with the URL of the css file online. After you generate your javadocs in the relevant folder, just cd into the websitedocs directory and run the script. This previous css files in the javadocs directory are removed by the script since they result in odd behaviour in the html rendering.
  - siteConfig.js: Enter the title "Project Name' and tagline 'IHMC Project-Name Documentation', and the baseUrl 'reponame'.The url is always'https://ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io'. The projectName is the name of your project GitHub repo and the organizationName is ihmcroboticsdocs.

STEPS TO START CREATING DOCUMENTATION:
- Make a copy of an existing websitedocs directory (see euclid or euclid-core) into your project repository.
- Make sure you have the latest version of Node and Yarn installed.
- Install Docusaurus on your computer by running the command:
npm install --global docusaurus-init

Note: DO NOT run docusaurus-init as this will regenerate docusaurus template files

- cd into websitedocs/website and run the command:

npm install --save

to generate the node_modules folder.

- Make the changes mentioned above in "FRAMEWORK AND HOW TO NAVIGATE" to edit the websitedocs directory contents according to your project.
- Create the documentation pages as md files and place them in the docs folder (or if you have static html pages put them in website/static).
- If you want to make other edits, I suggest consulting https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/installation for more instructions. NOTE: The framework is set up in such a way that each project repo links to the main website but docusaurus is not really suited for integrating contributions from multiple repos into one website, we are able to get away with this through some fiddling with siteConfig.js and hard links, but you may find that some edits cause weird behavior).
- Before you publish, you need to make sure that all your md files are rendered to html. To generate these html which will then be published in your gh-pages branch, cd into your website directory run the command: 'yarn run build' OR 'npm run build'.
- To view changes locally, cd into your website directory and run the command:
yarn start OR npm start OR docusaurus-start
- Load site at http://localhost:3000/ (it will automatically open up on your browser window) to view changes locally
- If you are satisfied and ready to publish your changes to GitHub, commit and push all changes to GitHub and then cd into your website directory (with the package.json file) and run the command:
  GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> \
  CURRENT_BRANCH=master \
  USE_SSH=true \
  yarn run publish-gh-pages

  Note: the current branch can be any branch that the relevant docs folder is in (for ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io the branch is source and the website is published to master. For project repos, the current branch is usually master and the website publishes to the gh-pages branch)

- If the publishing does not work, try running 'yarn install' and then 'yarn run build' in your website directory and then repeat the step above.
- Ensure that in your GitHub repository settings, in GitHub pages the source is set to the gh-pages branch.

VERSIONING:
- If it is the FIRST TIME setting up your project repo's websitedocs folder with versioning, cd into your website directory and run the command:
yarn examples versions

This will generate a versions.js file which will generate a versions page listing all the site versions. Customize this file by entering your the URL where past versions of your project can be viewed and accessed as well as links to their docs and release notes. This page can be accessed at https://ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io/projectreponame/versions.html

Old Procedure without executing tasks in build.gradle:

  - If you are ready to finalize the documentation for a version, ensure that all your javadocs in the 'javadocs' folder in website/static are correct and the script replacestyles.sh has been run on them to adjust their css styling. Rename the javadocs folder to 'javadocs-version#' eg. 'javadocs-0.8.2' and make sure the link to the javadocs in projectnamejavadocs.md in your docs directory points to  https://ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io/projectreponame/javadocs-version#/overview-summary.html.
  - Run the command

  yarn run version <version-number>

  (for example yarn run version 0.8.3). This will preserve all documents in the docs directory and make them available as documentation for version 0.8.3. If this is the latest version, documents from this version will use the URL docs/doc1.html. For past versions, documents will use the URL docs/oldversionnumber/doc1.html.
  - Running the command again eg. yarn run version 0.9.0 will make version 0.9.0 the most recent set of documentation so documentation from version 0.8.3 will use the URL docs/0.8.3/doc1.html while documentation from version 0.9.0 will use docs/doc1.html.

New Procedure using tasks in build.gradle

  - Ensure the javadocs are all generated (execute task genJavadocs if not)
  - Ensure all the css styling for the javadocs have been configured (run the script replacestyles.sh if not)
  - Execute the task javadocsVersion to rename the javadocs directory with the updated version number.
  - Ensure that the link in projectnamejavadocs.md in your docs directory matches up with this new folder name ie. the URL that links to your javadocs should be in the form https://ihmcroboticsdocs.github.io/projectreponame/javadocs-version#/overview-summary.html.
  - Execute the task docsVersion to create a new version in docusaurus of your documentation.

- Upon creating a version, only the files from the docs directory and the sidebar files (sidebars.json) will be stored as part of that version. Therefore, static files (such as those in the img and javadocs directory) will not be associated to a version automatically by docusaurus. This is why we rename the javadocs folder, once all javadocs are generated and the replacestyles.sh is run on it, to specify the version it belongs to. If changes are made to be incorporated into a new version, new javadocs must be generated into website/static/javadocs and replacestyles.sh must then be run before renaming to javadocs-version# and updating the link in projectnamejavadocs.md accordingly. After this is done, a new version can then be created by running the command stated above.
- All the documentation for a specific version are saved in website/versioned_docs/version-version# and all the sidebar files to a specific version are saved in website/versioned_sidebars.
- See the euclid repo for an example; visit https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/versioning for more information.

Other things to note:
- All documentation website related things are in the websitedocs folder of the project repo.
- The Docs (all md files, as well as the md files that link to javadocs) are kept in the docs folder
- All other webpages and website related things are in the pages folder of the website directory
- The docs directory must have a flat structure for the md files to render properly with docusaurus
- To upgrade to the most recent version of docusaurus, run 'npm update docusaurus'.

Errors that may occur (these are the most prominent/frequent ones encountered so far):
- If you receive an error when trying to publish changes or loading the site locally, check your docusaurus version.
- Type error (utils.getPath is not a function), try running 'yarn upgrade', then 'yarn install', then 'docusaurus-start' in your website directory.
- "EBUSY" or "ECONN REFUSED" error: this happens during publishing usually when the branch that it is trying to publish to is open/active, try closing your IDE where you're editing your project repo.

For more info: https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/installation

For help: https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues


CODE SNIPPET AUTOMATION:

The script that is responsible for this is codesnippets.js, stored in websitedocs/website/static/snippetautomation. How it works:
- Look at any of the quickstart docs or tutorials with code snippets as reference.
- Each markdown file stored in the docs folder that requires a code snippet should include portions of html code incorporated with javascript. Wherever in the document that you need a certain code snippet, put an html chunk of the form:"<pre><code data-url-index="indexnumberofsourceurlinarray" data-snippet="portionORcompleteORmultipleportions" data-start="startstringofsnippet" data-end="endstringofsnippet" id="uniqueidname"></code></pre>" in its place. Multiple code snippets in a document will have the same line with a unique id to identify it.
- The "data-" attributes in the code tag above should be filled out as follows:
  - The index of the url of the source code file (hosted on github) in the url array in the script at the bottom of the page.
	- The unique Ids of the HTML elements (the parts in your markdown file where code snippets are supposed to go).
  - Whether the snippet is the complete source file, a single portion, or multiple portions of the same file.
	- In the case that the code snippet is a portion of the source file rather than the complete text, the start and end strings that signify where the code snippet should begin and where it should end.
  - In the case that the snippet is made of multiple portions, the data-start and data-end attributes will be replaced with the data-portions attribute that is an array that contains arrays of start and end strings for each portions eg. data-portions='[["public MobileRobot()","\n\n"],["// create first gimbal joint","/\*\*"]]'.
    - One thing to note: the data-start and data-end attributes use html escape characters while the data-portions attribute uses javascript escape characters.

The markdown file must have a script at the bottom of the form:
<script id="snippetscript" src="../snippetautomation/codesnippets.js" sources=Array.of("urlofyourfirstsourcefile","urlofyoursecondsourcefile")></script>

- The 'sources' attribute is an array of the urls of your .java source code files in your project repo on GitHub, serviced through RawGit to obtain the raw .java files. RawGit has two mechanisms for obtaining the raw files from a GitHub url: development mode(new changes to GitHub reflected within minutes, but excessive traffic will be throttled and blacklisted) and production mode (has no traffic limit BUT has a permanent file link based on commit hash). The current docs are using development mode to allow for changes to the files to be updated automatically. The development mode urls are of the form https://rawgit.com/ihmcroboticsdocs/simulation-construction-set/master/src/main/java/us/ihmc/simulationconstructionset/Robot.java while production mode urls are https://cdn.rawgit.com/ihmcroboticsdocs/simulation-construction-set/02deb157/src/main/java/us/ihmc/simulationconstructionset/Robot.java which uses the state of the file at a specific commit.
- codesnippets.js does the rest of the work given these parameters (fetching the data from the source code file given its URL, gets the portions needed from the source code files, converts the extracted text to a styled html format that makes use of highlight.js to better represent code snippets, and places this finished html code into the markdown document in the relevant spot.

Error checking via bamboo:
- There will be instances where the code snippets cannot automatically update themselves according to the source file (if the start and/or end strings no longer exist). This is usually the case for smaller snippets (such as the ones in the API pages that consist of one liners of method headers/variable declarations). In this repo there are two scripts: checkSnippets.sh and snippetErrors.js that check for these issues. Since the code extraction for the snippets only happens when its doc webpage is loaded, snippetErrors loads the webpage url (that contains the documentation with the snippet) and checks if all the snippets still exist in the source code files. If not, the issue and the id of the code element on the webpage with the faulty snippet is printed. The script checkSnippets runs snippetErrors for each documentation url that contains code snippets (so every time you make a new webpage that will contain snippets that come from a source file, add the webpage url to the code in the checkSnippets script). These scripts will make up a bamboo project that fails when at least one snippet error is found in the urls. This bamboo project's build can be accessed via the Rosie bot on slack.
